# Contribute Financially

## Donate

If you feel like supporting *openLilyLib* development out of responsibility or
the sheer satisfaction of being able to use it &ndash; but don't have the time
or skill-set for any active involvement &ndash; you may still simply donate some
money to acknowledge the volunteer effort spent on the software.

*openLilyLib* is a community project but has originally been invented and is so
far overwhelmingly developed by *Urs Liska*. So donating some arbitrary amount
at <https://paypal.me/uliska>[^privacy] should not go in the wrong direction ... If you
don't want to use that payment provider you may directly
[get in touch](contact.md) with us and work out an alternative solution.

If you are using certain packages and specifically want to support their
deveolpment please get in touch with the respective package maintainers.

## Commission

Donating money is fine for Free Software projects like *openLilyLib*, but there
is another way to support development that &ndash; if you are willing and able
to make a more notable investment &ndash; can have a deeper impact in general
and be even more rewarding personally: commissioning.

*openLilyLib* provides an infrastructure for all kinds of packages, and the
range of possibilities is by no means limited to the packages already out there.
If you are missing substantial features or modules in a package you can always
get in touch with the package maintainer(s) (as listed in the package's
`package.cnf` file) and suggest an implementation based on a commission.

Equally you can encourage developers to create completely new packages to
support features, workflows, or notation features you are still missing. It is
even possible to have someone create an *openLilyLib* package for private use
&ndash; although we really don't encourage investing human intelligence into
something that doesn't end up in the common public knowledge. So even in such a
case we would strongly prefer a solution where generic functionality can go into
Free Software components to the greatest possible extent.

[^privacy]:

    If you follow this external link you will leave our site and may pass personal data to a different site provider.