# *openLilyLib* Core Development

At the heart of *openLilyLib* is the basic infrastructure implemented in the
[oll-core](../oll-core/index.html) package, and we would be very happy to
welcome more contributors to make sure *openLilyLib* remains a healthy and
striving project not only on the short term.

For all aspects of core development it is essential to familiarize yourself with
`oll-core`'s code base and documentation, and it is always a good idea to get in
touch with us to discuss useful contributions before spending substantial
amounts of time on your own.

## oll-core Package Management

`oll-core` provides all the fundamental functionality like package loading,
option handling, logging etc. Improving the code base, making sure it is
up-to-date with an evolving LilyPond foundation, and overall extension of the
infrastructure is an important challenge, for which we'd be happy to rely on
more responsible and creative developers.

## Building Blocks

In addition to the basic package management `oll-core` includes lots of building
blocks that can be used in a multitude of ways, for building packages but also
for creating custom project libraries, using modularity to achieve more complex
results more easily. We are always interested in extending these features to
make *openLilyLib* an even more rewarding environment to program for LilyPond.

## Website Work and Documentation

Documentation has for long been a critical weak spot in *openLilyLib*'s
existence. In addition to actual documentation work there are a number of issues
to be solved regarding the fundamental approach to structuring and having proper
documentation systems in place.

This includes continuing to develop this website, adding and improving a number
of plugins for the [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) website generator to
automate handling of multiple sub-sites. Also we are looking for ways to set up
a proper system of documentation through *code* comments, which will have to be
integrated with website and PDF generation documnetation as well.
