# Participate!

Although originally started as a single-developer effort *openLilyLib* has
become a community project, and we are always in need of participation &ndash;
which can be in arbitrary ways.

## Use!

It may sound silly, but the most obvious way of supporting *openLilyLib* is
*using* it. More users mean more field testing, more visibility, and
consequently more potential developers. In its current form *openLilyLib* is
still a project and environment with rough edges and much polishing and
stabilization to be done.

## Test and Report!

Rough edges can only be polished after detection and discussion. If you are
experiencing problems don't try to silently get over them, adapt your code or
eventually decide to drop the tool, please report any problems, so they can be
made fruitful for improving the toolkit.

Please also go forward trying out new features or even challenge package
developers to enhance their packages.

## Fix!

If you are able to do so, or have learned something during discussion please
consider and don't hesitate engaging in a package's code base. Most package
maintainers if not all are more than happy receiving Pull Requests.

## Document!

If you are eager helping *openLilyLib* development but are afraid your coding
skills are not up to the task, then *please* consider joining our effort to
produce decent documentation. One of the main reasons (if not *the* main) that
*openLilyLib* still is sort of a niche product is its dramatic
under-documentation.

The website you are reading now has been started in February 2020 as a first
shot at a coherent and comprehensive documentation strategy for *openLilyLib*.
It features high-level “authored” manuals that can pretty easily be maintained
without touching internal package code. In addition to that we are working an a
solution to also integrate API/code documentation with a low-level reference of
available commands and functionality.

## Develop!

Finally, don't hesitate joining development efforts yourself. You can equally
join development of a specific package (there are a few that can really use
additional manpower), or write your own package!

If you have an idea for functionality that would lend itself to being wrapped as
an *openLilyLib* package, or if that holds true for existing library code you
might get in touch with us and suggest a package. openLilyLib is *not* a closed
system! And even if for whatever reason it is not considered for inclusion in
the “official” GitHub organization you may at any time publish *openLilyLib*
packages independently.

## Donate and Commission!

If you feel the responsibility to support *openLilyLib* development but don't
have the time or skill-set for any active involvement you may still simply
donate some money to acknowledge the volunteer effort spent on the software. Or
you may commission package authors to create functionality.

We don't put up a “Donate” button here because there is no clear organizational
body who could validly accept donations (on behalf of whom?), but if you're
really interested in this topic we'll surely find an adequate arrangement.